---
layout: slide
title: "Organizing Sass"

---

<section>

## {{page.title}}

#### ITCSS - Inverted Triangle CSS

Low Specificity and High Genericity

*down to*

High Specificity and Low Genericity

</section>

<section>

#### {{page.title}} - ITCSS

* Settings
* Tools
* Generic
* Base
* Objects
* Components
* Overrides

</section>

<section>

#### {{page.title}} - Settings

This is where your variables go.

A good place to load web fonts as well.

</section>

<section>

#### {{page.title}} - Tools

The home of mixins and functions.

</section>

<section>

#### {{page.title}} - Generic

Style attributes to apply to everything on the page.

Example:

{% highlight scss %}
* {
  -webkit-box-sizing: box-content;
  -moz-box-sizing: box-content;
  -ms-box-sizing: box-content;
  -o-box-sizing: box-content;
  box-sizing: box-content;
}
{% endhighlight %}

</section>

<section>

#### {{page.title}} - Base

Bare element style attributes.

This is where you can do your resets and element defaults.

Example:


{% highlight scss %}
a {
  text-decoration: none;
  &:hover {
    @include glow($link-hover-color);
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

</section>

<section>

#### {{page.title}} - Objects

From this point onward, everything is *class* based.

This is where you address major page objects, such as the page header,
main content, and so on.


{% highlight scss %}
.page-header {
  h1 {
    font-family: $header-font-stack;
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

</section>

<section>

#### {{page.title}} - Components

UI components, such as menu items, icons, navigation, etc.


{% highlight scss %}
.jump {
  @include iconFont;
  color: $jumpColor;
  &.up { left: $jumpOffset; }
  &.down { right: $jumpOffset; }
  &:hover { color: $jumpHoverColor; }
}
{% endhighlight %}


</section>

<section>

#### {{page.title}} - Overrides

These should be kept to a bare minimum.

Consider using a targetted class in the Components section instead.

</section>
