---
layout: slide

---

### Section 1: Telling Sass where to find files and where to put them

* Sass needs to know where to find the files it should compile, and also
  where to write the compiled files.

* There is no magic to this, and the little watch script is telling Sass
  exactly where to pick things up and where to put them down.

[[see notes](print.html#telling-sass-where-to-find-files-and-where-to-put-them){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}]

<div class="notes">

The concept of a `sass/` source folder and a `css/` destination folder
is very common, but you may find other ways to do this. If you do,
your tooling will need to reflect this.


If you look in the `gulpfile.js` file that is being used by
`npm start`, you can find the area where the Sass files are being
compiled. Line 11 contains:
{:.left-align}


{% highlight javascript %}
gulp.task('sass', function () {
{% endhighlight %}



which creates the task to compile Sass files. Lines 12 through 16
specify where to look for such files.
{:.left-align}


{% highlight javascript %}
   return gulp.src(
       [
           'sass/**/*.scss',
           'sass/**/*.sass'
       ])
{% endhighlight %}



Line 22 specifies where to
write them.
{:.left-align}



{% highlight javascript %}
      .pipe(gulp.dest('css'))
{% endhighlight %}


Since Sass is a pre-compiler, it needs to run before you open your
files in the browser (and it will need to be run before you release
your files to the public). This will *always* require some sort of
manual or automated step. Using the watcher program here, which is
called [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com){:target="_blank"}, is one way people do this in an
automated way. There are several other ways as well.


* command line task runners: Gulp, Grunt, Rake, Make, etc.
* GUI task runners: Codekit, Proces, etc.
* tools that include Sass support: Jekyll, Rails, Webkit



This class is not concerned with such tooling, but it is an important
part of using Sass.

&nbsp;

You can reuse this setup in other projects by copying the
`package.json` and `gulpfile.js` files, and recreating the structure
of the project.

</div>
